Hello and welcome this lecture.
We're adding a health bar, as you can see in the bottom left here.
We're also making our player a lot tougher than the enemy so that we can go round and actually shoot
up lots of enemies and kill them off before our health depletes.
Let's dive in and see how to make that health bar.
So the moment we've got no way of knowing whether we have enough health left as a player, how long
have we got left to play based on our current amount of health?
Now, let's do this.
I would like to introduce a health bar to our Hudd.
So we're gonna do this by going over to Hudd widget.
If it's not already open on your editor, we're going to look for in the Pallett the progress bar and
bring in this progress bot.
And why a progress bar?
Because actually it has all the attributes of a health bar as well, namely that if we scroll down in
the details, pain to the percentage, then you can see that by changing that percentage, which is
actually a number between zero and one so slightly confusingly named, you can see that we get our bar
fill up and drain away.
So what we're really gonna want to do is start at a percentage of one and then drain it down until we
reach percentage of zero, which point our player is going to die.
So that's the aim.
What I want to do here is also go ahead and change the Phil style.
So, again, to fill it up a little bit and then look at the fill image and change that.
See if we can change that tint.
To something like a bit of green, typical health color there.
And then just make it super obvious that we've got here is indeed health.
I'm going to add a tax block, label it health, and I'm going to go and stick that next to our health
ball.
Like so.
And then selecting both of these components, I want to anchor them to the bottom left.
So they move with the bottom left edge of our screen.
So that's what I'm going to do.
It's gone and changed.
The anchor defaults and I match again to move them both a little bit closer to that bomb left edge.
And I'm going to compile this and let's go and have a play with full screen.
You can see the HealthPartners right there at the bottom left.
So obviously, it isn't currently representing our health at all.
So to do that, what we're going to do is expose a function from Ashu to character CVP to Blueprint
so that we can get this in the Yeonji widget.
So I'm basically going to copy the blueprint pure that we have for is dead.
But instead of returning a boolean we're going to return a float, which is going to be this percentage
between zero and one.
Not technically a percentage more for fraction but hey and we're going to call it the get health percent.
And we all are going to want it to be both blueprint pure and const, because it shouldn't.
When we call it change this class in any way.
Then we're going to go ahead.
Control shift p create the implementation.
And what we want to return is the health as a percentage here.
So think about it.
Little may change for you.
How would you do calculating health here as a percentage of the total health care?
Welcome back.
So let's see if you had a go.
It'd be health divided by Max Health.
As simple as that.
Because when we have our max health, it's gonna be one.
When we've got zero health.
It's going to be zero.
And everywhere in between.
So let's go back over to the editor and compile.
Then we're gonna go over into our HUD UI and somehow we need to get hold of that character.
So what we're gonna do is go to our progress bar and then scroll down to where we had that percentage
property.
And next to it, because here's a button called Bind.
If you drop down that and create binding.
And this again, create a function whose job it is to get that percentage value.
And every time this returns a different value, it's going to update the UI.
So that's fairly straightforward.
It's called get percent.
Let's give it a better name when I click on it, go to the details and rename it to get health like
so.
And then what we need to do is somehow get hold of our character.
Now, the way we can do this is first of all, this UI is attached to the player controller.
So already we can get hold of a play controller.
And then from the play controller, we can get it's controlling porn.
And in fact, if you just search for porn, you can see that there's a get owning player porn, which
directly does this.
It goes ahead and gets the owning player.
Then it gets the porn that is controlling.
And then from there, what we need to do is a cast to the shooter character in order to have access
to the function we just created.
And then from there, we can get the health percent.
And we can just go and funnel that in to our return node and make sure we passi in our execution pin
from the cast shooter character.
They're going to go ahead and compile and save that and hit play.
And what we should say is a healthy 100 percent.
And then going down as we get shot, I was a little bit slow to see that I'm going to go and do that
from the main level viewport hit play Health Bizer one.
Then it goes to half.
Then you die.
So that's all happening a little bit too quickly.
So I'd like to challenge you to increase only the player's health, not the allies health.
I want to have the feel of the level B that you two shot kind of kill the enemy, but then your player
has a lot more health and it takes a lot more shots off the A.I. to actually get you to come down because
you're a big, strong hero.
So the idea here is to create a child for the player.
So this is going to be a child of the character class, but not just of the character class, probably
already of that blueprint class.
You're going to have to override a few different variables, namely the max health.
It's gonna be higher for the player.
And maybe you want a different mesh to differentiate you from all those enemies around you.
There was a video and see if you can have a go at this challenge.
Okay, welcome back.
So we're going to go to the content folder and we're going to find ourselves the character who got BP
shoes character.
I'm going to right click on that and I'm going to create a child blueprint class here, which is going
to be a BP underscore player, Chuter character like so.
And now opening up this blueprint is going to have all of the same properties of its parent blueprint
because those were already set in the parent.
But now we can choose to override a few things.
The first thing I'm going to overwrite is the mesh.
So we're starting off.
This is a red mesh thing that's good for the enemies.
But what I would like is the green mesh for my hero.
So it's going to be super obvious that he's a different guy.
Then we're going to go over to the roots or to the class defaults and change up the max health.
So I want him to have roughly 10 times as much health as the enemies in this level.
So I'm going to go ahead, compile and save that.
And then one more thing we've got to do is go and change our blueprint.
So we're going to go and find the BP KMEL game mode and we're going to change the default porn class
from the BP shoe to character to the BP player shoots character because we've already got Chuter A.I.
placed in the world.
And then we're gonna go ahead and hit play.
And you can see we've got ourselves a different character.
He's got a different look.
And when he's getting shot at, we're getting the health ball coming down slowly.
And I can two shot kill off the enemy, but it still can be quite challenging.
If you place enough enemies in your scene.
So that's it for this lecture.
We've seen how we can add a health component with binding and with a progress bar.
Components in the next lecture were going to be looking a little bit again at animation in order to
get our player able to aim up and down with the mesh.
I'll see that.